---
layout: post
title: Can Computers Think?
subtitle: An attempt to answer....
---

Generally, we have considered our ability to think as the elucidate difference between mankind and all other beings. Indeed, the thought has long been considered as the hallmark quality of a human. for centuries, Great minds have struggled to explain the nature and origin of knowledge. The rise of computers has added a layer of complexity to this great philosophical dilemma. At a time when computer technology is advancing at a breakneck pace and when software developers are glibly hawking their wares as having artificial intelligence, the inevitable question has begun to take on a certain necessity: Can a computer think? 
before we determine whether or not computers are capable of thought, we must reveal the ambiguity that overshadows the word thought itself, especially the notion of consciousness and thought are mutually inclusive. once the word thought has thoroughly disambiguated, we could revisit the test formulated by Alan Turing used to test if computers think. Finally, we’ll discuss the structure of objection to Turing test and the effect it has on the essence of computer thinking? [1]


The process of defining thought is a must before attempting to answer the question of “Can Machines Think?”. It is commonly believed that only consciousness beings are capable only of thinking, and therefore computers - made of plastics and metals - could never achieve consciousness, and thus, could never achieve thought. This assumption is clearly false. It is widely accepted amongst psychologists, that we - as humans - are even most of our time in the state of subconscious mental activity. They believe that we are not consciously aware of all, or even most of our thought processes. Speech is one of the concepts that reinforce the notion of subconscious mental activity. We almost always find ourselves saying what we want to say without consciously choosing the words. When engaging in any form of conversation, we are not conscious of the thought processes that transform the sounds we hear into the meaning attached to the words that have been spoken. Many human mental activities, from understanding to the way we perceive and interpret the external world around us, can be performed in an unconsciousness state. Realizing that consciousness and thought are not mutually inclusive make us reformulate the question of Can Computer Think with a much more precise approach. The real question is whether lifeless objects like computers could be said to perform these cognitive tasks; and since humans can perform these tasks non-consciously, the question could be addressed without considering whether or not the object could be conscious. The answer seems to be yes, but the problem of how to test this hypothesis still remains.

The Imitation Game, introduced by Alan Turing, one of the greatest minds and is considered the father of the computer, is an experiment to resolve the problem of whether a computer is capable of thought. The experiment is - also known as Turing Test -  is performed by the presence of a person, a computer and an interrogator. The interrogator is in a separated room from the person and the computer. The interrogator communicates with the person and the computer through a keyboard and a screen. The interrogator is allowed to ask as deep and wide-ranging questions as he wishes. The objective of the experiment is for the interrogator to determine through conversation which of the other two is the person and which is the computer. The object of the computer is to try to mislead the interrogator to think that it is a human, while the target of the other person is to help the interrogator to expose the computer. The experiment is repeated several times with a wide range of people in the positions of the two humans. The conclusion is dependent on the successful identifications. If the successful identification is not significantly higher than the guessing frequency which is fifty percent in this experiment we can say that computer can think. The main hypothesis that the Turing test relies on is that if a computer is capable of convincing a person that it has a mental state, then it really has a mental state. For example, if the computer could hold a talk with a native Chinese speaker in such a way that the speaker is convinced that it understands Chinese, then it really understands Chinese.

For a long time till now, it is believed that conversation is the trademark of thought. Rene Descartes the great philosopher believed that conversation is the best way to differentiate between humans and machine, as he believes that even the most advanced machine cannot generate different words and put them in a specified order that produces a meaningful answer to a certain question. After the current technological leap and advancement that happens and the ability of computers now not only to respond to texts but respond with a voice to a wide range and deep questions. If the notion of thought held by Descartes is held to be true, then Turing test will be considered as an accurate way to answer if a computer could thin or not.

After declaring and removing the ambiguity surrounding the notion of thought and presented a way to decide if the computer could think or not? the Turing test and the definition of thought that held are all beyond criticism. The main objection to this hypothesis comes from the simulation theorem. The objections rely on the belief that simulation doesn’t incorporate reality. Simulated X is X-like but not real X. Artificially created Diamonds are not truly diamonds. The computers that pass Turing test is only showing the ability to simulate the process of thinking but not really thinking, which is different from the capability of thought. This belief relies on the fact that computers consist of sets of formalized operations and formally specified symbols. These formally specified sets don’t represent or mean anything from the computer concern. Providing the computer with the ability to interpret these symbols would result in creating more uninterpreted symbols. On printing 2 multiplied by 3 on the calculator, the calculator would print 6, but it has no idea what is the meaning of 2,3 or 6. It only interprets the formal symbols given to it without adding a meaning to it.  This is attempt to invalidate the ability of computer to think is also accompanied by some ambiguity, it is not true to assume that simulated X is not X. consider the artificial voiced identical to human voice, is it considered a voice, although the non human nature of threat sound but it is considered a sound. Similarly, organic compounds synthesized in the laboratory were not created naturally but still organic compounds. The comparison of these two previous examples with the case of simulated death clears some the ambiguity that surrounds the word simulation There are two cases of simulations, the first one when the simulated objects lack the essential feature of the object being simulated, like the case in death simulation. The second type is being exactly identical to the object being simulated except for the fact that is not being produced using the standard means. Like the case of artificial coat that looks exactly natural coal in every aspect except for the fact that it has been produced in the factory. This is the case with the above mentioned example of the simulated voice which contains the major characteristics of the human voice except being artificially produced. The main defect in the simulation objection is now clear, those who raise the objection believe that computers can never achieve the second type of simulation. And despite the continuous enhancement of the process, it will remain of the first type. However, the main question we addressed at the beginning is now reformed to whether the computers can produce a simulation of the second type or not. 

In conclusion, we can say that our understanding of thinking is derived from the naturally occurring environment surrounds us, in which only living organisms are capable of thought. With the rise of computers which is almost identical to the humans in their ability of perception, make the decision and solve problems. We must revise, as humans, our concept of thinking and decide if it is best served to include computers as a thinking object. referring to the notion of thought as highly adaptable mental processes that allow thinking objects to reason, develop analogies and revise beliefs in light of their experience. The most important thing to consider is if the well-programmed computer will more or less match our adaptability. If one day AI researchers reach the ultimate goal of developing general AI, these computers will then display the same ingenuity and purposeful thinking that we have, and more important that their behaviour will be a result of their ability to learn from experience as their program will interact in what we are referring to as reasoning, analyzing and making decisions. When we describe these acts in the same manner as we describe them when we refer to our abilities, as humans, we must conclude that it will be possible for a computer to think.


### Referecnes

[1] *Turing, Alan M. "Can digital computers think?." The Turing Test: Verbal Behavior as the Hallmark of Intelligence (1951).*



